# Windows NTLM

[TOC]



## Res
### Related Topics


### Other Resources



## Intro
> 🔗 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NTLM

In a Windows network, NT (New Technology) LAN Manager (NTLM) is a suite of Microsoft security protocols intended to provide authentication, integrity, and confidentiality to users.[1][2][3] NTLM is the successor to the authentication protocol in Microsoft LAN Manager (LANMAN), an older Microsoft product. The NTLM protocol suite is implemented in a Security Support Provider, which combines the LAN Manager authentication protocol, NTLMv1, NTLMv2 and NTLM2 Session protocols in a single package. Whether these protocols are used or can be used on a system, which is governed by Group Policy settings, for which different versions of Windows have different default settings.

NTLM passwords are considered weak because they can be brute-forced very easily with modern hardware.[4]


### Weakness and Vulnerabilities
> 🔗 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NTLM#Weakness_and_vulnerabilities

NTLM remains vulnerable to the pass the hash attack, which is a variant on the reflection attack which was addressed by Microsoft security update MS08-068. For example, Metasploit can be used in many cases to obtain credentials from one machine which can be used to gain control of another machine.[3][26] The Squirtle toolkit can be used to leverage web site cross-site scripting attacks into attacks on nearby assets via NTLM.[27]

In February 2010, Amplia Security discovered several flaws in the Windows implementation of the NTLM authentication mechanism which broke the security of the protocol allowing attackers to gain read/write access to files and remote code execution. One of the attacks presented included the ability to predict pseudo-random numbers and challenges/responses generated by the protocol. These flaws had been present in all versions of Windows for 17 years. The security advisory explaining these issues included fully working proof-of-concept exploits. All these flaws were fixed by MS10-012.[28][29]

In 2012, it was demonstrated that every possible 8-character NTLM password hash permutation can be cracked in under 6 hours.[30]

In 2019, this time was reduced to roughly 2.5 hours by using more modern hardware.[4][31] Also, Rainbow tables are available for eight- and nine-character NTLM passwords. Shorter passwords can be recovered by brute force methods.[32]

In 2019, EvilMog[33][34] published a tool called the ntlmv1-multitool[35] to format NTLMv1 challenge responses in a hashcat compatible cracking format. With hashcat and sufficient GPU power the NTLM hash can be derived using a known plaintext attack by cracking the DES keys with hashcat mode 14000 as demonstrated by atom[36] on the hashcat forums.

Note that the password-equivalent hashes used in pass-the-hash attacks and password cracking must first be "stolen" (such as by compromising a system with permissions sufficient to access hashes). Also, these hashes are not the same as the NTLMSSP_AUTH "hash" transmitted over the network during a conventional NTLM authentication.



## Ref
