# 2023.10.17




### 👉 FedPrompt: Communication-Efficient and Privacy-Preserving Prompt Tuning in Federated Learning
Federated learning (FL) has enabled global model training on decentralized data in a privacy-preserving way by aggregating model updates. However, for many natural language processing (NLP) tasks that utilize pre-trained language models (PLMs) with large numbers of parameters, there are consider- able communication costs associated with FL. Recently, prompt tuning, which tunes some soft prompts without modifying PLMs, has achieved excellent performance as a new learning paradigm. Therefore we want to combine the two methods and explore the effect of prompt tuning under FL. In this paper, we propose ”FedPrompt” to study prompt tuning in a model split aggregation way using FL, and prove that split aggregation greatly reduces the communication cost, only 0.01% of the PLMs’ parameters, with little decrease on accuracy both on IID and Non-IID data distribution. This improves the efficiency of FL method while also protecting the data privacy in prompt tuning. In addition, like PLMs, prompts are uploaded and downloaded between public platforms and personal users, so we try to figure out whether there is still a backdoor threat using only soft prompts in FL scenarios. We further conduct backdoor attacks by data poisoning on FedPrompt. Our experiments show that normal backdoor attack can not achieve a high attack success rate, proving the robustness of FedPrompt. We hope this work can promote the application of prompt in FL and raise the awareness of the possible security threats.


### 👉 Towards Practical Few-shot Federated NLP
Transformer-based pre-trained models have emerged as the predominant solution for natural language processing (NLP). Fine-tuning such pre-trained models for downstream tasks often requires a considerable amount of labeled private data. In practice, private data is often distributed across hetero- geneous mobile devices and may be prohibited from being uploaded. Moreover, well-curated labeled data is often scarce, presenting an additional challenge. To address these chal- lenges, we first introduce a data generator for federated few-shot learning tasks, which encompasses the quantity and skewness of scarce labeled data in a realistic setting. Subsequently, we propose AUG-FedPrompt, a prompt-based federated learning system that exploits abundant unlabeled data for data augmentation. Our experiments indicate that AUG-FedPrompt can perform on par with full-set fine-tuning with a limited amount of labeled data. However, such com- petitive performance comes at a significant system cost.


### 👉 Federated Large Language Model : A Position Paper
Large scale language models (LLM) have received significant attention and found diverse applications across various domains, but their development encounters challenges in real-world scenarios. These challenges arise due to the scarcity of public domain data availability and the need to maintain privacy with respect to private domain data. To address these issues, federated learning (FL) has emerged as a promising technology that enables collaborative training of shared models while preserving decentralized data. We propose the concept of federated LLM, which comprises three key components, i.e., federated LLM pre-training, federated LLM fine-tuning, and federated LLM prompt engineering. For each component, we discuss its advantage over traditional LLM training methods and propose specific engineering strategies for implementation. Furthermore, we explore the novel challenges introduced by the integration of FL and LLM. We analyze existing solutions and identify potential obstacles faced by these solutions within the context of federated LLM.


### 👉 PLMM: Personal Large Models on Mobile Devices
nspired by Federated Learning, in this paper, we propose personal large models that are distilled from traditional large language models but more adaptive to local users’ personal information such as education background and hobbies. We clas- sify the large language models into three levels: the personal level, expert level and traditional level. The personal level models are adaptive to users’ personal information. They encrypt the users’ input and protect their privacy. The expert level models focus on merging specific knowledge such as finance, IT and art. The traditional models focus on the universal knowledge discovery and upgrading the expert models. In such classifications, the personal models directly interact with the user. For the whole system, the personal models have users’ (encrypted) personal information. Moreover, such models must be small enough to be performed on personal computers or mobile devices. Finally, they also have to response in real-time for better user experience and produce high quality results. The proposed personal large models can be applied in a wide range of applications such as language and vision tasks.



### 👉 FEDBPT: EFFICIENT FEDERATED BLACK-BOX PROMPT TUNING FOR LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS
Pre-trained language models (PLM) have revolutionized the NLP landscape, achieving stellar performances across diverse tasks. These models, while benefiting from vast training data, often require fine-tuning on specific data to cater to distinct downstream tasks. However, this data adaptation process has inherent security and privacy concerns, primarily when leveraging user-generated, device-residing data. Federated learning (FL) provides a solution, allowing collaborative model fine-tuning without centralized data collection. However, applying FL to finetune PLMs is hampered by challenges, including restricted model parameter access, high computational requirements, and communication overheads. This paper intro- duces Federated Black-box Prompt Tuning (FedBPT), a framework designed to address these challenges. FedBPT does not require the clients to access the model parameters. By focusing on training optimal prompts and utilizing gradient-free optimization methods, FedBPT reduces the number of exchanged variables, boosts communication efficiency, and minimizes computational and storage costs. Ex- periments highlight the framework’s ability to drastically cut communication and memory costs while maintaining competitive performance. Ultimately, FedBPT presents a promising solution for efficient, privacy-preserving fine-tuning of PLM in the age of large language models.