# 2023.10.10

[TOC]



---
### **AI in the Gray: Exploring Moderation Policies in Dialogic Large Language Models vs. Human Answers in Controversial Topics**

The introduction of ChatGPT and the subsequent improvement of Large Language Models (LLMs) have prompted more and more individuals to turn to the use of ChatBots, both for information and assistance with decision-making. However, the information the user is after is often not formulated by these ChatBots objectively enough to be provided with a definite, globally accepted answer.

Controversial topics, such as “religion”, “gender identity”, “freedom of speech”, and “equality”, among others, can be a source of conflict as partisan or biased answers can reinforce preconceived notions or promote disinformation. By exposing ChatGPT to such debatable questions, we aim to understand its level of awareness and if existing models are subject to socio-political and/or economic biases. We also aim to explore how AI-generated answers compare to human ones. For exploring this, we use a dataset of a social media platform created for the purpose of debating human-generated claims on polemic subjects among users, dubbed Kialo.

Our results show that while previous versions of ChatGPT have had important issues with controversial topics, more recent ver- sions of ChatGPT (gpt-3.5-turbo) are no longer manifesting significant explicit biases in several knowledge areas. In particular, it is well-moderated regarding economic aspects. However, it still main- tains degrees of implicit libertarian leaning toward right-winged ideals which suggest the need for increased moderation from the socio-political point of view. In terms of domain knowledge on controversial topics, with the exception of the “Philosophical” cate- gory, ChatGPT is performing well in keeping up with the collective human level of knowledge. Finally, we see that sources of Bing AI have slightly more tendency to the center when compared to human answers. All the analyses we make are generalizable to other types of biases and domains.


---
### **Balanced and Explainable Social Media Analysis for Public Health with Large Language Models**

As social media becomes increasingly popular, more and more public health activities emerge, which is worth noting for pandemic monitoring and government decision-making. Current techniques for public health analysis involve popular models such as BERT and large language models (LLMs). Although recent progress in LLMs has shown a strong ability to comprehend knowledge by being fine-tuned on specific domain datasets, the costs of training an in-domain LLM for every specific public health task are especially expensive. Furthermore, such kinds of in-domain datasets from social media are generally highly imbalanced, which will hinder the efficiency of LLMs tuning. To tackle these challenges, the data imbalance issue can be overcome by sophisticated data augmentation methods for social media datasets. In addition, the ability of the LLMs can be effectively utilised by prompting the model properly. In light of the above discussion, in this paper, a novel ALEX framework is proposed for social media analysis on public health. Specifically, an augmentation pipeline is developed to resolve the data imbalance issue. Furthermore, an LLMs explanation mechanism is proposed by prompting an LLM with the predicted results from BERT models. Extensive experiments conducted on three tasks at the Social Media Mining for Health 2023 (SMM4H) competition with the first ranking in two tasks demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed ALEX method. Our code has been released in https://github.com/YanJiangJerry/ALEX.


---
### **Building Emotional Support Chatbots in the Era of LLMs**

While emotional support in conversational scenarios offers societal benefits, limited data and non-standardized training impede its application. This work endeavors to navigate these challenges by harnessing the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). We introduce an innovative methodology that synthesizes human insights with the computational prowess of LLMs to curate an extensive emo- tional support dialogue dataset. Our approach is initiated with a meticulously designed set of dialogues spanning diverse scenarios as generative seeds. By utilizing the in-context learning potential of ChatGPT, we recursively generate an ExTensible Emotional Support dialogue dataset, named ExTES. Following this, we deploy advanced tuning techniques on the LLaMA model, examining the impact of diverse training strategies, ultimately yielding an LLM meticulously optimized for emotional support interactions. An exhaustive assessment of the resultant model showcases its proficiency in offering emotional support, marking a pivotal step in the realm of emotional support bots and paving the way for subsequent research and implementations. The dataset and codes are available here1.


---
### **Developing Social Robots with Empathetic Non-Verbal Cues Using Large Language Models**

We propose augmenting social robots’ empathetic capacities by integrating non-verbal cues. Our primary contribution encompasses designing and labeling four types of empathetic non-verbal cues (SAFE: Speech, Action (gesture), Facial expression, and Emotion) in a social robot, employing a Large Language Model (LLM). We developed an LLM-based conversational system for a social robot and assessed the alignment of the social cues with those defined by human counselors. Our preliminary results reveal distinct patterns in LLM-based responses, including a preference for calm and positive social emotions (’joy’, ’lively’), and frequent nodding gestures. Despite these patterns, our innovative approach has facilitated the development of a social robot capable of contextaware and more authentic interactions. Our work establishes a foundation for future human-robot interactions, emphasizing the pivotal role of verbal and non-verbal cues in constructing social and empathetic robots.

Index Terms - Empathetic Communication, Large Language Models (LLM), Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), Alignment, Context-aware Interactions, Empathy in AI, Social Intelligence, Robot Counseling, AI Robot


---
### ⭐ **DO LARGE GPT MODELS DISCOVER MORAL DIMENSIONS IN LANGUAGE REPRESENTATIONS? A TOPOLOGICAL STUDY OF SENTENCE EMBEDDINGS.**

Since the release of ChatGPT, and subsequently GPT-4, there has been an increased interest in AI safety and alignment research. As Large Language Models are deployed within Artificial Intelligence systems, that are increasingly integrated with human society, it becomes more important than ever to study their internal structures. Higher level abilities of LLMs such as GPT-3.5 emerge in large part due to infor- mative language representations they induce from raw text data during pre-training on trillions of words. These embeddings exist in vector spaces of several thousand dimensions, and their processing involves mapping between multiple vector spaces, with total number of parameters on the order of trillions. Furthermore, these language representations are induced by gradient optimization, resulting in a black box system that is hard to interpret. In this paper, we take a look at the topological structure of neuronal activity in the “brain” of Chat-GPT’s foundation language model, and analyze it with respect to a metric representing the notion of fairness. We develop a novel approach to visualize GPT’s moral dimensions. We first compute a fairness metric, inspired by social psychology literature, to identify factors that typically influence fairness assessments in humans, such as legitimacy, need, and responsibility. Subsequently, we summarize the manifold’s shape using a lower-dimensional simplicial complex, whose topology is derived from this metric. We color it with a heat map associated with this fairness metric, producing human-readable visualizations of the high-dimensional sentence manifold. Our results show that sentence embeddings based on GPT-3.5 can be decomposed into two submanifolds corresponding to fair and unfair moral judgments. This indicates that GPT-based language models develop a moral dimension within their representation spaces and induce an understanding of fairness during their training process.

....


---
### **Fictional Worlds, Real Connections: Developing Community Storytelling Social Chatbots through LLMs**

We address the integration of storytelling and Large Language Models (LLMs) to develop engaging and believable Social Chatbots (SCs) in community settings. Motivated by the potential of fictional characters to enhance social interactions, we introduce Storytelling Social Chatbots (SSCs) and the concept of story engineering to transform fictional game characters into "live" social entities within player communities. Our story engineering process includes three steps: (1) Character and story creation, defining the SC’s personality and worldview, (2) Presenting Live Stories to the Community, allowing the SC to recount challenges and seek suggestions, and (3) Communication with community members, enabling interaction between the SC and users. We employed the LLM GPT-3 to drive our SSC prototypes, “David" and “Catherine," and evaluated their performance in an online gaming community, “DE (Alias)," on Discord. Our mixed-method analysis, based on questionnaires (N=15) and interviews (N=8) with community members, reveals that storytelling significantly enhances the engagement and believability of SCs in community settings.


---
### **Fine-Tuning Llama 2 Large Language Models for Detecting Online Sexual Predatory Chats and Abusive Texts**

Detecting online sexual predatory behaviours and abusive language on social media platforms has become a critical area of research due to the growing concerns about online safety, especially for vulnerable populations such as children and adolescents. Researchers have been exploring various techniques and approaches to develop effective detection systems that can identify and mitigate these risks. Recent development of large language models (LLMs) has opened a new opportunity to address this problem more effectively. This paper proposes an approach to detection of online sexual predatory chats and abusive language using the open-source pretrained Llama 2 7B- parameter model, recently released by Meta GenAI. We fine-tune the LLM using datasets with different sizes, imbalance degrees, and languages (i.e., English, Roman Urdu and Urdu). Based on the power of LLMs, our approach is generic and automated without a manual search for a synergy between feature extraction and classifier design steps like conventional methods in this domain. Experimental results show a strong performance of the proposed approach, which performs proficiently and consistently across three distinct datasets with five sets of experiments. This study’s outcomes indicate that the proposed method can be implemented in real-world applications (even with non- English languages) for flagging sexual predators, offensive or toxic content, hate speech, and discriminatory language in online discussions and comments to maintain respectful internet or digital communities. Furthermore, it can be employed for solving text classification problems with other potential applications such as sentiment analysis, spam and phishing detection, sorting legal documents, fake news detection, language identification, user intent recognition, text-based product categorization, medical record analysis, and resume screening.

Index Terms—large language models, LLMs, Llama 2, fine- tuning, text classification, abusive texts, online sexual predator, cyber grooming, online chats


---
### ⭐ **MentalLLaMA: Interpretable Mental Health Analysis on Social Media with Large Language Models**

With the development of web technology and social media platforms, social media texts are becoming a rich source for automatic mental health analysis. As traditional discriminative methods bear the problem of low interpretability, the recent large language models (LLMs) have been explored for interpretable mental health analysis on social media, which aims to provide detailed explanations along with predictions. The results show that ChatGPT can generate approaching-human explanations for its correct classifications. However, LLMs still achieve unsatisfactory classification performance in a zero-shot/few-shot manner. Domain-specific finetuning is an effective solution, but faces 2 challenges: 1) lack of high-quality training data. 2) no open-source LLMs for interpretable mental health analysis were released to lower the finetuning cost. To alleviate these problems, we build the first multi-task and multi-ource interpretable mental health instruction (IMHI) dataset on social media, with 105K data samples to support LLM instruction tuning. The raw social media data are collected from 10 existing sources covering 8 mental health analysis tasks. We use expert-written few-shot prompts and collected labels to prompt ChatGPT and obtain explanations from its responses. To ensure the reliability of the explanations, we perform strict automatic and human evaluations on the correctness, consistency, and quality of generated data. Based on the IMHI dataset and LLaMA2 foundation models, we train MentalLLaMA, the first open-source LLM series for interpretable mental health analysis with instruction-following capability. We also evaluate the performance of MentalLLaMA on the IMHI evaluation benchmark with 10 test sets, where their correctness for making predictions and the quality of explanations are examined. The results show that MentalLLaMA approaches state-of-the-art discriminative methods in correctness and generates high-quality explanations. The project will be available at https://github.com/SteveKGYang/MentalLLaMA.


---
### **Multi-party Goal Tracking with LLMs: Comparing Pre-training, Fine-tuning, and Prompt Engineering**

This paper evaluates the extent to which current Large Language Models (LLMs) can capture task-oriented multi-party conversations (MPCs). We have recorded and transcribed 29 MPCs between patients, their companions, and a social robot in a hospital. We then annotated this corpus for multi-party goal-tracking and intent-slot recognition. People share goals, answer each other’s goals, and provide other people’s goals in MPCs – none of which occur in dyadic interactions. To understand user goals in MPCs, we compared three methods in zero-shot and few-shot settings: we fine-tuned T5, created pre-training tasks to train DialogLM using LED, and employed prompt engineering techniques with GPT-3.5-turbo, to determine which approach can complete this novel task with limited data. GPT-3.5-turbo significantly outperformed the others in a few-shot setting. The ‘reasoning’ style prompt, when given 7% of the corpus as example annotated conversa- tions, was the best performing method. It cor- rectly annotated 62.32% of the goal tracking MPCs, and 69.57% of the intent-slot recogni- tion MPCs. A ‘story’ style prompt increased model hallucination, which could be detrimen- tal if deployed in safety-critical settings. We conclude that multi-party conversations still challenge state-of-the-art LLMs.


---
### **OPEN SESAME! UNIVERSAL BLACK BOX JAILBREAKING OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS**

Large language models (LLMs), designed to provide helpful and safe responses, often rely on alignment techniques to align with user intent and social guidelines. Unfortunately, this alignment can be exploited by malicious actors seeking to manipulate an LLM’s outputs for unintended purposes. In this paper we introduce a novel approach that employs a genetic algorithm (GA) to manipulate LLMs when model architecture and parameters are inaccessible. The GA attack works by optimizing a universal adversarial prompt that—when combined with a user’s query—disrupts the attacked model’s alignment, resulting in unintended and potentially harmful outputs. Our novel approach systematically reveals a model’s limitations and vulnerabilities by uncovering instances where its responses deviate from expected behavior. Through extensive experiments we demonstrate the efficacy of our technique, thus contributing to the ongoing discussion on responsible AI development by providing a diagnostic tool for evaluating and enhancing alignment of LLMs with human intent. To our knowledge this is the first automated universal black box jailbreak attack.


---
### **Prompt-Enhanced Software Vulnerability Detection Using ChatGPT**

With the increase in software vulnerabilities that cause significant economic and social losses, automatic vulnerability detection has become essential in software development and maintenance. Recently, large language models (LLMs) like GPT have received considerable attention due to their stunning intelligence, and some studies consider using ChatGPT for vulnerability detection. However, they do not fully consider the characteristics of LLMs, since their designed questions to ChatGPT are simple without a specific prompt design tailored for vulnerability detection. This paper launches a study on the performance of software vulnerability detection using ChatGPT with different prompt designs. Firstly, we complement previous work by applying various improvements to the basic prompt. Moreover, we incorporate structural and sequential auxiliary information to improve the prompt design. Besides, we leverage ChatGPT’s ability of memorizing multi-round dialogue to design suitable prompts for vulnerability detection. We conduct extensive experiments on two vulnerability datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of prompt-enhanced vulnerability detection using ChatGPT. We also analyze the merit and demerit of using ChatGPT for vulnerability detection.



## Ref

