# Meet the press 2.7

https://youtu.be/KpArF5bHUw4



opening logue 

if it's tuesday it's one of the biggest stagse in American politics, the state of the union, as president Biden braces for a fight with congress over the fate of the contruy and the futhre of his presidency. 

Plus the death toll surpasses seven thoudsand in turkey and syria as emergency services and international aid groupd rush to save lives in the aftermath of that catastrophic earthquake. 

And the pantagon admits to surveillance blind spots that allow spy ballons to fly undetected overr U.S. airspace as officials combs through what remains with chinese spy balloon.

welcome speaking 

welcome to meet the press now, im kristen Welker in washington, where we are just hours away from president biden's state of the union address tonight. in front of a joint session of congress and the american people, it comes at a pivitol moment as he addresses a divided congress for the first time while laying the groudwork for his own re-election bid.  Two senior officials tell NBC news the president will seek to reaffirm a core  promise of his 2020 campaign, restoring the soul of the nation. He will also unveil a new message: finish the job and one white house official tell us that the president will talk aboud the progress the country has made, in recovering from the pandemic since he took office. The president hiself says he views his objective tonight in fairly straightforward terms here's some of what he told reporters yesterday, ahead of the address. 

   