# S2  E12

> https://xiaoheimi.net/index.php/vod/play/id/13992/sid/1/nid/12.html
>
> :clock1: 1.5 h ~ 2 h 



so all my checks are in, so I have to run and make a cupcake delivery. 

here, take this and put it in the till, i did a cupcake run last night too. 

then how come i never met them?

but who would they have heard things from but you?

it's just you have a hair and jacket of a women. 

why are we in this seedy building that smells like marijuna?

for the last nights my dealer called me after she selled pot to people. and i sell those people the munches they need. 

this is me selling cupcaked to make our rent.

well, thank you for the stoner summary of the last election.

and i do not approve of pot at all. it makes people lazy and lethargic and drains all one's ambitions.  -- God you are fun. 

Look, on the other sied of this door, is money to help us make $600 more we need for rent.

we just broke out some dank nugs.

i mean what is the problem with doing this?

special occasion 

let's just send out positive energy and the universe wil provide. 

swing a miss. universce. 

Suprise! i was in the neighborhood and thought i stop by and say hello

i'm kinda trying to watch my wrist. 

i'mna start your with 12 cupckades.

between the money we just got last night and the pregnant girls baby's quinceanera slash (/) baby shower, we're gonna make our rent. 

you know what, i jsut gonna go over and ask Andy if he can float use some cash til the holiday rush kicks in.  

 while im gone why don't yourt wekipedia kuanza.

how come you never push the food at the diner like this. 

lock the door, hit the light and crwal over here, and stay low!

stay down till we're out of sight

oh please! like this is the first time you've been on your keels in the bathroom

if he can't see us he can't evict us

put the money for those cupcakes on the counter.

why are'nt you putting if off? you know what you have to do. go over to the couch and put your hands in that crack. it's every poor girls rite of passage.

there's nothing in my pusr .... except that baggie of pot that Keafer gave me as a Christmas present.  --- This is not a Christmas presentl, this is a giant. illegal, fat sack of weed.  --- yes, with a Roudof stick which makes it a Christmas gift. See, its nose and eyes are red.  

It's in the butter i was using to make cupcakes. 

Maybe this is the universe's way of telling you to stop doing drugs.

i know, it's like the port-a-potty on the last day of Coachella. 

i got my horse stoned --- he just try to fit in to school.

oh you girls have been holding out on me!

i am picking up what you are laying down.



there're 15 apeiece, good quality.

you should get that mole checked out. i dont feel good about it.

Dude this chick is freaking me out --- take it easy Dave. We'll just get some food in her. i got a buddy on the way with pizza

Stripper, how about their lifves. there got no way out.

can i talk to you, before you start performing an acoustic ballad about strippers with moles?

where's the weed, homeslizzy ?

perfect timing Andy, these are the girls who are selling edibles. 

She is really getting the hang of that. 

Sorry, i was mortified to ask did you and i had phone sex last night?

why did you tell me you gus needed help? -- i guess i just didn't want to have to admit to you or to myself that we're in real trouble. Plus, being a charity instead of a girlfriend is so not hot. 

oh, then whatever you do, do not look at the video Mas has of me, rolling around in the IHOP parking lot, covered in syrup.

she called me too, and said you didn;'t have your rent. and of course for sure, the rising water of ther ocean will swallow us and kill us all.

we're gonna keep you off the drugs. -- you mean because im more positive? --- no, 'cause we may have to sell your urine for the next month's rent, and imana need that pee clean. 