# S2 E13

https://xiaoheimi.net/index.php/vod/play/id/13992/sid/1/nid/13.html



and with the vanilla frosting, it would make a lovely cupcake wedding cake

i mana get some water, and then i'll be back to taste everything

There isn't a Denny's on the eastern seaboard that i haven't hit up and said it was my birthday for a free sundae -- but what if you are wrong and she is the real deal. a cupcake wedding cake could be a lot of money -- we have to crack sher BS before she eats our cupcakes and then us. 

No. He is either an out-of-work actor she hired  or he has cake in his mouth



But max, can we leave the shop? I mean, even though the business is slow, what if Dottie wants to come back and order cupcakes for her wedding

I guarantee your right now, she is crawling through an air-conditioning vent at a Krispy Kreme.

we won a weekend getaway.

i was hoping to get a liitle special one-on-one time with you this weekend. So when do we leave 

i always wanted to be abducted, and my guidance counselor said i had no goals



And here we go. Again, I don't believe in names, but feel free to call me Roger if it helps you.

get out! get out! the bed is float. This is awesome! Usually you gotta bring the ropes to the bed. this way you get to eliminate a whole step! --- the scultral beauty is actucally surpassed by the joy of resting in it. Some say it's like being rocked to sleep in the arms of god.

 oh, no, thanks, i can do it. i was an Eagle Scout. man there's just not enough occasions where i can brag about at. 

is this door to the adjuring room.

i'm sorry all the other cabins are booked. i'll bring you some bedding for the couch.

 